0550-Credscan-for-secret-scan.md (#1)
vineetmimrot/runner: docs/adrs/0550-Credscan-for-secret-scan.md

# ADR 0550: Use CredScan for credential scanning

**Date**: 2020-06-22

**Status**: Proposed

## Context

> Currently, there are two scenario's where there are chances that credentials can leak into workflow logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, there are couple of scenario where user credentials leak to workflow logs can happen during an Action run.
```

> - Action author can unintentionally introduces bug which prints non-github credentials on console.

Reviewer: `non-github credential` is a complex term. Here you can just say `credentials`. Later you are anyways calling that runner masks some credentials like github secrets

> - Action author can unintentionally introduces bug which prints non-github credentials on console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Action has a bug due to which it prints user credentials. This could happen due to an unintentional oversight on Author's part.
```

> - User is using some CLI based action and his/her script can print non-github credentials on console.

Reviewer: Is this a stronger use case? If so, then move it above the previous one.

> - User is using some CLI based action and his/her script can print non-github credentials on console.

Reviewer: This is also true for `runs` step and you should call that out as it is one of most used steps.

> Though the current runner has the capability to detect some type of credentials but it is not exhaustive.

Reviewer: Can you elaborate one what "some" means? Note down whatever you know. If there are more, Action team can point during review.

## Decision
Microsoft Security team (Strike) provides [CredScan library](https://strikecommunity.azurewebsites.net/articles/4114/credential-scanner-overview.html) which can detect an exhaustive list of secret types like [[1]](https://strikecommunity.azurewebsites.net/articles/7016/credential-types-detected-by-credscan-v2.html) & [[2]](https://github.com/milidoshi26/runner/blob/main/src/Misc/layoutbin/ConfigFiles/FullTextProvider.json).

> We have created PoC and found that each invocation of CredScan takes around 15-20ms and for a workflow of 200 lines it takes around 5s extra. 

Reviewer: First talk about "what" changes. The perf can be next paragraph.

> We have created PoC and found that each invocation of CredScan takes around 15-20ms and for a workflow of 200 lines it takes around 5s extra. 

Reviewer: I don't think the amortized total is providing any additional decision point here.  We should just look at individual message and just call out the new delay.

Author: So Should we mention a 15ms delay on each message scanning?

> We can use this library into Runner to detect many types of secret and thus prevent any secret leakage.

Reviewer: Expand this line: 
Where exactly will you put this scan? Same place as secret scan?

## Consequences

> By using this library into Runner, we can prevent many types of secret leaks. 

Reviewer: Very vague statement. Please be more crisp.

Call out that this will give a really wide coverage of credential types without each Action needing to explicitly take care of this. This will be useful for CD workflows which deal with sensitive credentials.

Author: done
